Answers to the text questions go here.

Question 1(d)

As the Fleisch-Kincaid (F-K) model was developed for evaluation of text for children to determine the grade level of texts, it has some limitations regarding technical aspects of adult texts. 
For example, a doctor may be very familiar with technical terms from their field like 'appendectomy', but as a 5 syllable word this may appear to F-K as a fairly complex word. 
A text containing a lot of similar words might be rated as not very readable, when in fact to the intended adult audience it is trivial. (1)

F-K also fails to give a meaningful grade-level answer if encountering a passage comprising very short and very low-average syllable sentences. 
A good example is the text "Green Eggs and Ham" by Dr Seuss, which scores a meaningless grade-level of -1.3 (2)

References for Q1(d)
(1) Janice Redish. 2000. Readability formulas have even more limitations than Klare discusses. ACM J. Comput. Doc. 24, 3 (Aug. 2000), 132–137. https://doi.org/10.1145/344599.344637
(2): Moore JE, Moore P, Millar BC. GREEN EGGS AND HAM BY DR. SEUSS: EMPLOYING DIGITAL TOOLS TO IMPROVE READABILITY OF PATIENT-FACING MATERIALS. Ulster Med J. 2022 Jan;91(1):50. Epub 2022 Feb 11. PMID: 35169340; PMCID: PMC8835417.


Question 2(f)

I wanted my tokenizer to acheive three things, 
- to split the sentence into words, 
- to ensure those words were formatted consistently with no capital letters or punctuation
- to not include less important words such as "I", "we" - these are stopwords and it generally improves model prediction accuracy to remove them. (3)

I then started experimenting to see if doing something else could make it more accurate. 
I had a look at the words coming out of the tokenizer for the first speech in the df. 
I noticed some quite short words were still coming out like 'put' and 'sure' and 'want'. 
It seemed to me like these words might still be less important to determining which 
political party gave a speech than longer words like 'businesses' or 'funding'. 
So, I decided to restrict my list of tokens to words over 4 letters. 
Happily this gave me a better performance. Restricting to tokens over 3 letters actually 
performed a bit better for SVM, but worse for random forest, so I decided to go with 4. 

def custom_tokenizer(text):
    tokenlist = text.lower().split(" ") - this line splits the test on spaces and puts all words lower case
    en_stop_words = set(stopwords.words('english')) - this line establishes that I want to use standard english stopwords
    return [token for token in tokenlist if token.isalpha() and token not in en_stop_words and len(token) >4] - this line returns tokens that don't contain punctuation, aren't stopwords and have more than 4 characters. 

References for 2f

(3) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_word, accessed 7th July 2026